Then I was in that Director of Combat Developments
for the remainder of my time in Doctrine, for the
remainder of my time at Fort Sill. Actually, the
title changed because that directorate went from
under the new Combat Developments Command at Fort
Belvoir, Virginia, but it was the same job. The
name changed. The function and my job remained the
same. And what did you do as the director? Our
mission in the Office of Combat Developments and
Doctrine, and later the Combat Developments
Command, it was called, Field Artillery, we were
to develop the doctrine and material
requirements for the future, for the Field
Artillery. In other words, we would ask ourselves
the question, how should the field artillery be
organized, how should it be equipped, and how
should it fight in the future? And I'll tell you,
that's a very great challenge to take those
questions and work them. And it was one of the most
interesting jobs that I that I ever had. Now, later
on in my career as a general officer, I was deputy
commander of the Combat Development Command near
Washington, looking at that total picture and
looking back at some of the work we did down there
seven years before, six or seven years before. And
that was an interesting experience, too, to be
able to go from the basic organization and
developments up to the top and look at it from both
ends. How many did you have on the staff helping you
with this with this chore? At Fort Selle? Yeah. 30
some odd officers with the supporting non-coms
and civilian people 30 odd I forget just how many it
was pretty sizable organization. And what would
you do sort of sit down and have seminars on
particular Well, of course, we worked hand in
glove with the field artillery school,
particularly on doctrine, because they're
teaching doctrine, and we were going to develop
new doctrine. In other words, when you get new
capabilities, you have to have new ways of doing
things, and that becomes the doctrine. Now, the
material side of it really is harder, I mean
simpler, than the doctrine side of it. You kind of
sometimes get into the question of the chicken and
the egg, One, when you ask how should we be
equipped, maybe you'd like to know how do we want to
operate or accomplish, and then decide how to
equip. Or you let the other approach, and it
varies. The state of the art will permit us now to
have, let's say, a cannon or an artillery weapon
and shoot 75 miles. Well, up to now, 20 miles has
been the number. Okay, what Should we take
advantage of this state of the art? If so, what
would we use that weapon for? And how, then, should
we involve a doctrine for its use? What should be
the doctrine for its use? I just gave you an
example. One of the things that we tied into was
taking advantage of computers to do the fire
direction, fire data computing for the field
artillery weapons. And we initiated that there.
As I say, it was slow to come to fruition. We also, by
the way, initiated the requirement which finally
was approved for what is now known as the Lance
Missile.
We wrote the first piece of paper on it. That was too
slow in being, it's just been recently been put in
the category, in the inventory also. We're
talking 20 years ago. And what was the difference
between the Lance Missile and the other... Well,
the Lance Missile was this weapon that would shoot
20... We knew we could now shoot a 75-mile. We used
to have the old Honest John rockets that shot about
20.
And our concept of the Lance Missile in the
beginning was that it be primarily a nuclear
weapon and it be A division weapon. The division
commander, you have a unit in a division. And, of
course, you could have some in corps. So that the
division commander could influence the
battlefield out to 75 miles. Well, the concept has
been changed, not by the Army, but by the
Department of Defense twice. It's no longer a
division weapon. It's no longer primarily in a
nuclear weapon. Really, it is dual capable, and we
had it dual capable too. And the character of it
changed at least twice that I know of. But at least
that concept is now a reality. And what is it today?
Today it's a core weapon only. In other words, the
division commander will not have it. It will be
controlled by the commander above him. That's
why. Is the range still 75? I don't know what the
specific range is, but I think it's basically the
same. As a matter of fact, I think they increased
it. I'm sure they did, as I recall. They increased
it since I left the Army. That was another major
change. Of course, when you increase that
requirement for range, and they did that by making
it a core weapon, then you change the,
everything's got to be changed. The screws and the
nuts and the bolts and the power unit and the
guidance system and everything. And tactics
also. So it's no wonder we go 20 years
to get it on the field. Besides these two, the use of
the computer and the Lance missile, were there
other major advances that you people were working
on? Oh, yes. We had,
I think we should go to lunch, and then I'd like to
discuss the most exciting, I think, of the era.
What was that? But I will mention that we did have a
new family of, field artillery cannon weapons
that we were proposing, and most of those are in the
inventory. But the exciting one I want to mention
is the aerial artillery, the artillery to support
the air assault division when the Army took to the
air in helicopters, and I'd like to discuss that
with you. Okay, can we read back some of that? Well,
we were talking about four major advancements.
The computer, the lance missile, the field
artillery cannons, and the air artillery. Oh,
yeah. I wanted to get into that. Yeah, you were
going to talk about the field artillery and the air
artillery. Yes, I wanted to get into that aerial
artillery and just mention before I do that, of
course, one of our important areas of The shoot,
move, and communicate was communications and, of
course, mobility. And we did also state the
requirements for, and we now have in the field, the
field radios that we envisioned then for field
artillery. A number of the weapons were
self-propelled and therefore self-mobile. But
the newest concept in mobility, moving, was the
helicopter. You know, the helicopter had proven
very useful in Korea, basically as an evacuation
vehicle. But we made great strides with the
helicopter, and we had some very fine ones. And so
we conceived of an artillery unit equipped with
rockets mounted on helicopters. And we developed
an organization and equipment list for that and
submitted it to higher headquarters.
And they didn't act upon that because
coincidentally, I think,
they just sent it back saying that the Army's
created a new board called the Air Mobility Board.
to investigate the use of helicopters across the
board and other aircraft by the Army in general.
And so your recommendation returned for
consideration in that process. This started in
19, that was 1962.
Actually, this board convened, it became known as
the House Board, it's a rather famous board,
because it did result in a sort of a revolutionary
doctrine
for the use of aircraft for the Army. How's
H-O-U-S-E? H-O-W-Z-E.
And I was fortunate enough to have been a member of
that board, and I took that little package, but of
course what we dealt with was much larger. But in
the end of the actions, we did wind up with such a
unit.
We did wind up also with recommendations for a
division and separate units that were oriented
toward the use, equipped to use helicopters and to
take maximum advantage of air mobility. You know,
when you introduce, it's a funny thing, as we go
along in the developments of capabilities for
war, Occasionally there's a significant jump,
like the nuclear weapon, for example, and
firepower.
Mobility, we felt, could be influenced
dramatically by intelligent use of helicopters.
So we wound up basically with a division equipped
with these and the units within the division,
which included the artillery. battalion of these
rocket helicopter unit, helicopter outfit. And
then we had direct support units with the regular
cannon, but their mobility was provided with a
larger helicopter.
This then became, it was approved by the Secretary
of Defense. He's the one who directed this study we
made. Great. And Mr. McNamara had approved this
for testing. I left Fort Sill to go to this trial
division which was then called the 11th Air
Assault Division
and was one of those I think fortunate people who
had the opportunity to be with it to get it
organized and trained and tested and the final
test well before approval came in the Carolinas on
maneuvers and And when was that? That was in
October, November of 63. Okay. No, 64. Okay. 64.
And Mr. McNamara approved the organization that
basically we tested there, which included this
division and other units. And tell me what
equipment you had in that division. Well, we had,
I'd like to mention that, after we get them in
Vietnam because the final approval within some,
not too many months after approval of these
organizations, President Johnson decided to go
into Vietnam in strength and we were alerted to go.
We were the first full division to go. Now there
were a couple of brigade combat teams that went
over in advance of us. We had, as a result of these
studies, tests, we were deployed with roughly 450
aircraft.
Most of those were helicopters. What type? We had
what's called the Huey, which was the workhorse,
basic troop carrier. It's also, that's it. It was
also the vehicle that we hung these rockets on. It
was also the vehicle that basically carried the
reconnaissance elements in there weaponry. Then
we had the little H-13 helicopter, it's a little
two-seated helicopter which was used for light
reconnaissance and observation. Then we had the
heavy, heavier medium, it's a medium helicopter,
CH-47, which lifted the artillery and we
developed means for moving, no that's still the
Huey, like we could move an artillery piece its
ammunition and its crew in one of those but
actually we would sling the weapon and the
ammunition under it and the reason we did that was
because it was much quicker than loading it in the
aircraft and out and the reason you wanted to be
very quick is when you unloaded and then you know
where you were vulnerable vulnerable to enemy
action you wanted to get it off and get that
aircraft out as fast as possible and we had in the
division a
troop of
twin engine reconnaissance aircraft
and initially we had a squadron or battalion of
light transport aircraft
fixed wing those were later determined to be an Air
Force mission and we turned them over to an Air
Force unit and they supported us but anyway all
this added up gave us tremendous capability to do
our all the functions on the battlefield well what
it sounds like to me and correct me if I'm wrong is
that what you did in 1961 and 1962 was basically
change the function of the helicopter to a combat
aircraft I'm just sort of a surprise. That's true.
From 62 and 3 and 4, yes. That's absolutely true. So
you were right in the forefront of this combat use
of the helicopter. I was among those few that
really went through all phases of this. There were
a lot involved at some phase or another, yes.
That's true. And, of course, the helicopter had
been looked upon up until then as a transport
aircraft and an evacuation aircraft. But there's
a lot of difference between moving in a helicopter
or a group of a bunch of helicopters and
maneuvering in them. And of course, we could get
into any amount of detail on that aspect of it. But
suffice it to say that
we were equipped to perform really all functions
of combat with aircraft. although we did have
units with vehicles so that you know we could carry
the heavy loads and catch up and build up but we
could go into a combat situation relying entirely
on aircraft initially and then when you in June of
1964 when you became the commanding officer of the
11th air assault division artillery you were the
first division to use helicopters in this sense
that's that's right we were the first to have them
organized You were the first helicopter
division. Yes, we were the first, that's right, in
the first air assault division. That's
fantastic. The first division to have anything
like that organization. Who was your commanding
general? The commanding general was General H.W.
O'Conard who was a brilliant thinker,
tactician,
leader. and I consider myself very fortunate to
have been associated with him. You recall in the
Battle of the Bulge when General McCulloch
answered the German demand for surrender by
saying nuts? The story is that Harry Cunard was the
G3 of that time and he's actually the one who said
send this message.
But he did a brilliant job there and later after we
came both came back from vietnam he left the
division before i did uh he was appointed
commander of the combat developments command
near washington there because of his great
capacity for thinking into guiding new ideas and
then when i came back after a while after i got back
oh after about a year i was assigned as his deputy in
that command he's a deputy commander. Well this is
really a great change then for the use of
helicopters and this is probably a great honor for
you wasn't it to be to be the uh commanding officer
of of that division? Well I was commanding officer
of the division artillery. Right yeah and how many
how many other divisions? You see sure how many
other colonels were there? Oh there were there
were quite a number you see that division
consisted of three brigades a division artillery
all commanded by colonels, an aviation group
commanded by a colonel, and then there were other
separate units of battalion size commanded by
lieutenant colonels, and then of course the
subordinate units of those majors won. So there
were three generals and I guess six colonels in
that division, five colonels in that division. So
you were right in the forefront then. I happen to
be, that's one of those matters of being in the
right place at the right time for advantage. The
advantage being that I was in the most interesting
outfit to come down the pike since I'd been in the
Army. And when we went to Vietnam, we couldn't have
come close to doing what we did in Vietnam without
that capability. We were freed from the terrain.
That's the main thing, you see. Well, you went to
Vietnam then in January of 1965. that's no in uh
September of 65 isn't it January quarter assist oh
it does okay well you were made assistant division
commander in January of 65 then were you sent to
Vietnam in September of 65 this
should read uh 66
we went to uh
We went to Vietnam in September of 66. No, you're
right, 65. In September of 65, and I was made
assistant division commander in January of 66. So
two months later, I moved from division artillery
commander to assistant division commander and
was nominated for promotion to brigadier
general. There were two assistant division
commanders, one assistant for logistics, I was
the operations assistant well let's talk about
Vietnam are we ready to talk about that okay good
what were your feelings when when you got your
orders to go to Vietnam to a new theater of combat
well the uh I felt it was the thing to do because of
course we've been following the situation and I
guess this was no great surprise that we were going
to the U.S. was going to send a major force into
Vietnam it was a little bit of a surprise I guess
that we were chosen to be the the ones to lead off
well we really weren't the lead I've got to give
credit to the first brigade of the 101st airborne
division and of the 73rd separate brigade who went
over being smaller lighter they got there before
we did But nevertheless, I thought it was the right
thing to do as an individual.
I'd spent many years being a student of this
communist effort that appeared to be aimed at
taking over the world, and they'd have to take us
over before they ever accomplished that. And I
basically felt that the further away from home we
could defeat their efforts, the better. And I'd
rather see it defeated now in my time than to have my
boys inherit the job, for example. And I felt it
very essential that we keep it away from this
hemisphere in any case. So I thought it was a
logical decision. And so in other words, you were
pretty eager to get in the combat. Yes, sir. I
thought it was the right thing to do. OK. What were
the conditions like when you landed? and where did
you go? where were you stationed? we went into what
was called the Highlands area okay two corps?
third corps okay third corps and uh as you know
Pleiku was the capital of that region and uh we went
in our base camp was at Anke which was uh oh about 20
miles inland from the uh China Sea there to go But we
immediately started operating, of course.
Initially, constructing the base and getting it
in condition, we sent out one brigade at a time and
operations, and eventually we got to the position
where we had all three brigades out. The base
became just a place like,
you know, to store things and to have the support
troops that aren't needed up front. And
communications. And communications. Many
people have the idea that we all fought out of
permanent bases out there. That's not true. We had
permanent bases, and we fought where it was
demanded, and we weren't directly tied to those
bases at all. But when we first got there, of
course, we had one brigade in that area, the 1st
Airborne Division, one U.S. brigade, and there
were, as I recall, initially three Vietnamese
divisions in that area. three or four and they've
been a great threat that the North Vietnamese were
going to take this area and so that's one reason we
went rather hurriedly to get into this fight
and tell you the truth that first I was there a year
and a half in that first period
there was plenty of enemy to be found and fought.
And I'm talking about North Vietnamese
divisions. And there was also a couple of Viet Cong
regiments, uniformed regiments,
in the area. And the Viet Cong guerrilla really
didn't figure significantly in our operations
for that year and a half I was in the division.
Mostly it was against the North Vietnamese
regulars. Mostly it was against the North
Vietnamese regulars and their major Viet Cong How
well did your helicopters work in combat? Very
well. We didn't really have any serious problems
other than one. We found in the dry season, it gets
very dry. You know, they have the rainy season and
the dry season. And when it gets very dry, the dust
was a problem. And we had the same problem
that the helicopter force in the raid on Tehran
had. And we licked it. How'd you do it? Well,
actually, the technical representatives of the
Bell helicopter, I think, as I recall, were the
main contributors. But basically, it was by
putting shields so that the dust wouldn't get in
there. The dust and dirt and grime. And so I was
amazed that this happened helicopters in Iran
after the experience, and they had I'm sure the
same experience as the Marines in Vietnam. How
well did the rockets work on the helicopters? They
were very effective. The only major deficiency of
the rockets were that they were not extremely
accurate, so you had to be very careful not to hit
our own people.
How about the machine guns and the cannons? How'd
they work? Oh, well, everything, we were well
equipped, extremely well equipped, and for that
war, we didn't have any counter battery
requirements. We didn't have any enemy artillery
to counter, and so we had quite adequate
firepower, and we used firepower a lot because the
American forces, I think, have always believed in
using firepower instead of infantrymen's lives.
There were some very interesting... things
developed though from a standpoint of tactics
with this new capability for
example for the artillery which I was commanding
initially there and the old doctrine you can place
your artillery in defilade that means for example
behind the hill And the basic purpose of that, to
simplify it, the basic reason for that is to be
masked from the enemy's artillery and
observation. The principle is observation.
Well, we used the tactic in Vietnam of placing the
artillery on the mountaintops.
And the reason for that was that we could get on the
mountaintops with our helicopter just as easily
as we could get in the valleys. But being on the
mountaintops, we could protect ourselves
without drawing off the troopers and the infantry
to reinforce us while we were serving the
artillery, you see, artillery pieces. And you
could command the valley. And you could command
the valley. That's just one aspect of it. Of
course, in the larger sense, you generally
consider that when you commit a division in
combat, in the battle, and commit them to action,
you will keep a healthy reserve. There's no rule of
thumb, but any brigade commander would
ordinarily keep at least a battalion in reserve.
He may start his offensive with two in reserve.
Similarly, at division level, a division
commander would like to have a brigade in reserve
or the elements of a brigade, equivalent
elements. But with this air mobile capability,
you really could consider any unit available to be
used as a reinforcing force if he was not actually
engaged with the enemy because you could go pick
him up and maneuver him as a reserve, a
counter-attacking forcing, a reinforcing
force. And so we could commit really the vast
majority of our combat battalions and companies
without the danger of being too weak in reserve. So
many of those operations were in the vast areas. It
was very seldom that we had a majority of our
battalions in contact with the enemy at any given
time. So I think that gives some hint at the
influence that this air mobility had on tactics.
Did you go out on the maneuver? Or did you usually
stay at the headquarters trying to direct and plan
the maneuvers? The headquarters, as assistant
division commander for operations, I was usually
in my helicopter
over the action or we'd have a light command post
ahead, division command post on the ground, but
I'd seldom get back to the base where the main
division headquarters was. But that helicopter
allowed us not only to keep in contact by radio, but
you could actually see what was going on. And that
was a great advantage if
that higher authority didn't interfere with the
subordinates' business. I always believed in
giving the
brigade commanders their, letting them make
their plan, get their plan approved, their order
and resources do it and let them do it. But it was a
great temptation because a commander, division
commander, assistant division commander,
brigade commander, could actually be with the
operation in the air, see what's going on in many
cases. Of course, in the jungles you can't see that
well. And there was a temptation on the part, to
some anyway, to therefore become involved more
directly
I tried very religiously not to do that. I always
felt that we had commanders entirely competent,
not more competent to conduct that battle on the
ground, certainly as competent, and after all
you've got to leave the authority where the
responsibility is. Sure, right there. But the air
mobility
allowed us to do many of these functions of combat,
tactical, logistical, the intelligence and
reconnaissance functions in different ways new
ways that weren't possible before for example
one day we got orders we were operating around
Pleiku got order from our higher commander which
was the equivalent of a corps commander
to move a brigade near to an area near Nha Trang,
which was about 200, as I recall, about 200
kilometers away from where we were,
immediately to reinforce a battalion of ours that
had become heavily engaged with a large enemy
force and which that immediately reinforced.
As I recall we got that instruction about 10
o'clock in the morning and before sundown that
afternoon we were 200 miles away with the assault
elements of a brigade in contact with the enemy
relieving the commander who was under fire.
That's fantastic. and then by nightfall those
caribou transport aircraft were landing one
after the other with supplies and ammunition and
we had that brigade closed before midnight and a
full brigade on the ground fighting before the
next sunrise with its necessary support elements
there which is fantastic
And we did that sort of thing. We had the capability
to do that sort of thing. That was sort of an
emergency situation. And if you choose the way you
do things, you can do them a little more calmly and a
little more detailed planning, but it can be done.
It can be done very successfully. We always felt
that even if the entire division was
operating three brigades and we needed to make a
significant tactical reach we could get a brigade
another 25 kilometers out and continue complete
support because we had that ability to move and
resupply with air and you didn't have to have a road
to get there that's for sure now when you were in the
air I suppose you were shot at quite a bit weren't
you Was your helicopter hit? Oh, we were often
shot, and occasionally we got hit.
I never was hit. The nearest, there was a hole shot
right next to me in the door of my helicopter, and I
got a little prick, but I didn't consider that a
wound. But nevertheless, this was commonplace,
of course. I remember seeing one of our battalion
commanders land, and I landed behind him. We were
going to got together for a chat, and he had
30-some-odd bullet holes in his helicopter, and
he was still flying. My goodness. I recall very
well. You know, the greatest difficulty
encountered in selling the concept of this
helicopter, basically helicopter-equipped
division, equipped for mobility, was its
vulnerability to anti-aircraft. And, of
course... Selling it to the Pentagon, you mean?
Yeah, so for a decision in the Pentagon and toward
the other senior army people up through the
channels,
a helicopter is a Baltimore machine. And when
you're taking the helicopter right down to the
ground to discharge troops, for example, a .45
pistol is a pretty good anti-aircraft weapon.
Certainly a rifle is. Certainly a machine gun is.
You don't have to have the sophisticated missiles
and everything but many people in looking at this
vulnerability question
lose sight of the what is the synergenics we call it
of the situation where you've got support of all
kinds of this group of helicopters we're going to
assume we're going to put into an area. You've got
fire support. You've got reconnaissance ahead of
them to see where the enemy is and to watch to see
that he doesn't come in. You've got the surprise
effect of the tactics of coming along just at the
treetops, and strangely enough, you won't hear
that helicopter until he's right on you. You won't
hear a group of them until he's right there. and
then all of a sudden swim you're down on the air
you've selected to land your troops on and you're
away and so we're not nearly as vulnerable as you'd
think and you say well you didn't have those big
anti-aircraft guns and missiles there well
that's true the enemy did bring in the uh 20
millimeter anti-aircraft and some of their
anti-aircraft weapons later on they gave us more
trouble that was after I left But we tested against
our own Hawk missile and we could fly under their
radar and we could actually destroy them before
they could get a shot off of them according to those
experiments. Anyway, it works. I think it would
work in Europe. I'm absolutely convinced that
every Corps commander in Europe should have one of
these divisions or at least a brigade with those
capabilities of the Air Assault Division in his
force. They're great for reconnaissance.
They're great to for flanking operations.
They're great for delaying operations. They're
just great for any raid that requires surprise,
swiftness, and reach. But in Vietnam, I recall at
the time I left, we kept pretty careful check and
records of the aircraft losses, of course, and
even the hits. Those were reported data, just like
casualties. So many hits, So many aircraft
knocked down, so many aircraft lost, if lost.
One of the beautiful things about a helicopter is
that you can disable the engine, but you can still
get down safely by auto rotation, it's called. It
takes a good pilot, of course, to do that. We had
splendid pilots. But as I recall,
we had a hit. for every 750 sorties on the average
for the year and a half I was there. And it doesn't
take many hours to fly 750 sorties with 450
aircraft. We had an aircraft downed every- these
750s hang together- every
2,750 sorties
and we had an aircraft lost every 27,500 sorties by
means lost and once the helicopter down we usually
if we landed it safely we usually recover it and
repair it see well how does that so that's not too
that's not too vulnerable oh that's pretty good
those figures got worse of course when the enemy
did bring in his anti-aircraft And how does that
compare to other aircraft? I really can't tell you
that but I know that these are startling
statistics when you look back at the predictions
that were made you know based on the suspected
vulnerability of these aircraft. Okay you've
listed a lot of the benefits of using the
helicopters what were your main problems in
Vietnam besides the fact that you'd get hit like
any other aircraft
the main problems in Vietnam were very clear
became very clear I uh was sent home on leave uh no
this is I'm not talking just about I'm talking
about with the use of the helicopter now we'll get
to the problems of all Vietnam oh with the use of the
helicopter well uh Your major problems, of
course, were maintenance problems. Aircraft are
sort of difficult to maintain in any case. Sure,
absolutely. But you just have to rest them enough
that you can get their prescribed maintenance in
for them. And that's a very important thing for a
commander to consider. The pilots can fly longer
than the aircraft, really, when you consider it.
over a period of days now we're talking about so
that was one thing ensuring that we met the
maintenance schedules and if we needed parts we
often had to wait too long for parts it's just a
terribly complex thing there's so many parts
involved it's a very difficult thing to maintain a
stock or have it in the next depot available to you
what you need every day sure so we would often wind
up with more helicopters on deadline waiting
maintenance because of parts and therefore this
creates a problem because it reduces your
effective strength really if you don't have those
aircraft so it's something we fought all the time
and improved all the time and got better and I think
we did a pretty good job a limitation of the
helicopter course is its inability to be
navigated in closed weather and We never really
got into a serious situation, dangerous
situation because of that. But I recall we had a
very careful plan for a surprise assault on the
Anlao Valley that was delayed for more than 24
hours because of weather. And we lost our surprise
and therefore lost our enemy who got out of the
valley before we got there. we had a plan that we'd
hoped would bottle him up in that valley and just
destroy a major element of the North Vietnamese
division there. That's an example of what it can
cost you. But there weren't any insurmountable
problems. It operated very, very well. Okay, then
let's go on to some other issues in Vietnam.
General Westmoreland said that the war was the
most technologically fought war in the history of
warfare. What other technological advances did
you have that you thought were helpful? Well,
there was one significant one
that I should mention not with a problem. It's
always a problem to get enough intelligence. Any
battlefield commander wants more intelligence.
Sure. And, of course, The North Vietnamese and
Viet Cong, it was rather difficult, particularly
the North Vietnamese, to get intelligence on
them. That was timely. So I suppose that one of the
technological capabilities that was most
helpful was the electronic intelligence
capability.
Fulfilled a very, very important function. It
never brings this intelligence to complete
fruition, but it helped a great deal. I think the-
What specifically in the electronics field?
Well, I don't think we can get specific on that.
It's basically getting information by
electronic means. Alright. Would you cut that off
for me? I hear something. Another technological
area that of course the aircraft
were a tremendous step forward and we were the only
division initially that had these all these
helicopters assigned organically in other words
we had them for use every day but every division in
Vietnam had helicopters made available to it sure
from supporting units to do go and conduct
operations and then the helicopter go back to the
parent unit that's quite a different thing
because they couldn't depend on them all the time.
I would add to technological advances that the
matter of the use of computers and allied
equipment, particularly in the logistics field,
that was very significant. But, of course, I think
what the statements that General Westmoreland
made probably quite true, but we would expect the
next time we go to war to be technologically even
further advanced. That's a function of this
technological revolution we're in. General
Westmoreland, of course, was the Supreme
American commander. Vietnam. What were your
workings with him? How often did you see him? Well,
we saw General Westmoreland at least once a week at
our division. He came to that division and visited
the troops and kept abreast of what we were
accomplishing, what we had ahead of us, and we saw
him often. What's your opinion of him? Can you
describe him? Well, General Westmoreland, as you
know, had been and was an outstanding man among his
peers from the time